Mike Hall: Hey, Joe, what's up?
Joe Beda: Not much. How are you?
Mike Hall: I'm doing alright.
Joe Beda: I'm a little overwhelmed by the amount of crap I have to do in terms of unpacking and everything, but, you know, it'll get there.
Mike Hall: Just… like, residual unpacking stuff from the move.
Joe Beda: Yeah, I mean, it's like, we had… we paid people to pack for us, which was nice, because that was the sort of time limit of getting out of the old house.
Mike Hall: Right.
Joe Beda: moved in. But everything's in boxes still, and it's just, you know, it's…
Joe Beda: There's just so much overhead of, like, what do I do with this thing? Do I keep this? Do I get rid of this? Where do I put it? You know, all that crap.
Mike Hall: Yeah, I, we,
Mike Hall: We actually took probably two and a half months to move from one house to the other, because there were only, like, a 25-minute drive from each other.
Mike Hall: And what that allowed us to do is, like, okay, we've staged a trailer, I have this little cargo trailer, it's 7 foot by 12 foot.
Mike Hall: We staged a cargo trailer full of stuff that's gonna go to that other house, like, in the garage. So we would pack it up, take it, unpack it, find a place for it. Then the next staging would be, okay, we've staged a cargo trailer of shit we're taking to Goodwill.
Joe Beda: Oh, that's nice. Yeah, no, we're.
Mike Hall: It's next door.
Joe Beda: So it's like… but we wanted to get the old house ready so that we could…
Joe Beda: You know, hit the market at the right time and all that.
Mike Hall: Yeah.
Joe Beda: And also.
Mike Hall: I'm in the middle of that right now, because, like, now is the right time, and they are feverishly working on…
Mike Hall: all of the work. Like, got all the drywall work done, all the, like, little bits of trim, rotten wood outside that they're pulling off, and re-caulking, and then repainting, and…
Joe Beda: Removing all the color from the house, because apparently everything has to be black and gray and beige, right?
Mike Hall: Yeah.
Mike Hall: Yeah, we're painting ours completely white.
Mike Hall: I know.
Ben Pfaff: We're looking at houses online now, and it seems like everything white is the, is, like, the trend, and to me, it just looks like…
Ben Pfaff: Like, landlord special.
Mike Hall: I think it's… I think it's that they want, they want you to be able to…
Mike Hall: see whatever color you want to put in there, but if, like, somebody has put, like… like, when we moved into the house, the old house that we left, one of the bedrooms had this, like, beautiful blue wall. It was, like, a deep.
Mike Hall: blue. And it was like an accent color on one wall in the room, and it was great, and we loved it, and we were like.
Mike Hall: We were like, we love this wall, and the realtor was like, paint it white.
Mike Hall: So…
Joe Beda: I think they want, you know, the buyer to be able to sort of project whatever they want into the house, right?
Mike Hall: Yeah.
Joe Beda: land, I don't know.
Ben Pfaff: Weird, I just see…
Kostadis Roussos: Boom.
Ben Pfaff: No character, and… A lot of work to give it energy.
Kostadis Roussos: Give me one second, setting up audio.
Ben Pfaff: Give it any, you know?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, audio has been set up.
Ben Pfaff: What's worth.
Mike Hall: We can hear you, we can hear you.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, I just want all to know that Castatis has reached that point with AI where he's discovered that he's working with an intern again.
Mike Hall: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: It's like.
Kostadis Roussos: Huh, why are you fixing this code in 7 different places? Oh, shit, you didn't make a common library.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, I don't want to spend lots of money, and I'm wasting lots of time. Can you please refactor all the code? Yay, we refactored all the code. Wait, I saw this error happen twice in two different places. Did we forget to add this, oh yes, we did! Could we refactor that? Great!
Kostadis Roussos: And I refer to the part where the rate limiter hits. Oh, the intern decided that today was an optional workday.
Kostadis Roussos: Right, because, like, if you try to use Claude and you're not a business at, like, 9 AM on a Pacific Standard Time, let me assure you, you get a lot of timeouts.
Joe Beda: Interesting.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? And so it'll say things like… like, I refer to that as the intern is on vacation.
Ben Pfaff: I'm just used to GitHub being down.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, well, you know, we all have our… we all have our crosses to bear. In my case, it's my intern.
Kostadis Roussos: Who has to be told, you know, no, no, no.
Kostadis Roussos: I was just reflecting that, like, I've reached that point where I realize I'm working with an intern, Gabe.
Kostadis Roussos: My Claude's an intern.
Gabe: Oh, no, that one, I see.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, Claude's become my intern. He's very good… he's always very polite, very, you know, it's like, what are you doing? See, I'm gonna do this in this really convoluted and impossible-to-work way.
Kostadis Roussos: Claude, how about we stop, and let's take a step back, Claude, let's think about it differently. Oh, you're so right! I'm like, oh, at least it's an intern I don't have to reassure isn't dumb.
Ben Pfaff: See, my former intern, just, I was just on his, PhD committee this last week, and he graduated, obviously.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, you've got the better… he's got the better interns.
Gabe: Yeah.
Ben Pfaff: Well, I mean, he never wrote code for me, it was… A little bit different.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, dude, we're complimenting you.
Joe Beda: I do worry, like, where are we going to… how are we going to grow new senior engineers if we don't have, sort of, these apprenticeship type of roles, you know?
Kostadis Roussos: I'm… I'm happy to…
Kostadis Roussos: Excuse me. I, I… you guys keep talking, I have to take this call, excuse me.
Mike Hall: I have a… I have a theory on that, Joe, which is…
Mike Hall: everybody's talking about, oh, the downfall of this and the downfall of that. I actually think that this will mean… it'll be similar to, like, when calculators came into math.
Mike Hall: And became ubiquitous?
Mike Hall: Like, a lot of the stuff that was just, like.
Mike Hall: long-form work that you would hand to junior people, and then they would toil for a week, and then you'd give them one insight as the lead or the architect. You'd give them one insight into, like, oh, you should have done this better, and then make them go back and toil some more. But now, actually, as you're bringing them up, they can do the toil with a tool.
Mike Hall: And you… and then.
Joe Beda: Yeah, I mean, maybe.
Mike Hall: It'll help with the… it'll help with the feedback loop being faster and… of… higher quantity?
Joe Beda: Yeah, I guess, okay, so, like.
Joe Beda: Costatus' example of, like, you know, refractoring things to actually sort of, like, hey, you're doing the same thing in seven places, let's just consolidate that, right? Like…
Joe Beda: Oh, no, I think that's similar to, like, when I, you know, used to give coding interviews back when I worked,
Joe Beda: I would also, like, you'd find these people, and they'd find a bug, and instead of, like, you know, you'd be like, oh, like, what about this case? And they would add another if statement, and by the time you're done pointing out cases, they'd have, like, 37 if statements, and you'd be like, okay, that's, like… So, like, I mean, I guess…
Joe Beda: You know, that's, like…
Joe Beda: There still will be a difference between good and bad, in terms of people being able to do this stuff, you know?
Kostadis Roussos: Hold on, hold on. I just wanted to interrupt. So, it turns out that a buddy of mine from when I was in college, and I decided to put a blog, a video blog, on precisely this topic. So, once it's out, I will share it with you. But I won't tell you my opinion until it comes out, because of course, I've been noted for my ability to keep my opinion to myself and not share it…
Mike Hall: Oh, shit.
Mike Hall: I'm really good at that.
Mike Hall: Sorry, I thought I was on mute.
Kostadis Roussos: I've of course demonstrated an ability to, like, not overshare and, like, you know, demonstrate restraint.
Kostadis Roussos: But, sorry, I just… but, you know, you should click and subscribe, and yeah, whatever, the usual stuff, like, whatever.
Kostadis Roussos: But yes, I have done a lot of… sorry, that was just me giving them my things. Keep talking. I have to get a few more things ready.
Mike Hall: Okay.
Mike Hall: Yeah, I mean, I think, Joe, that I… you're still gonna need taste.
Ben Pfaff: Come over here, come over here. This is funny, this is how she appears when my standing desk is.
Joe Beda: Nice eyes.
Mike Hall: I mean, you still need judgment and taste and.
Joe Beda: Right, right, I think… but it's gonna be…
Joe Beda: I don't know, I wonder, like, developing judgment and taste.
Joe Beda: Can you… I don't know, I mean, like…
Mike Hall: Because he…
Joe Beda: like… Photography, right? It used to be pre-digital photography, right? It would take you 2 weeks to… to…
Joe Beda: you know, take a photo and see what it looks like, or I guess.
Mike Hall: Right.
Joe Beda: doing black and white, you still have to go… it was still slow, and now it's, like, instant, you can look at stuff. I mean…
Joe Beda: I don't know, it's democratized it in a way, and I don't know if it's made photography better or worse.
Joe Beda: It's interesting, it's just different.
Mike Hall: Yeah, I think that's what it is, it's gonna democratize it more, and then it's like, you're gonna see people who come up with different
Mike Hall: Possibly different patterns.
Joe Beda: Yeah.
Mike Hall: Yeah. I mean, I think the real thing that's… I'm not as worried about the… at first, I was really worried about the junior engineers, but, like, the more I talk to my son, who's, like, a full-stack developer at JPMorgan Chase, the more I feel like, okay, like, he's…
Mike Hall: he's on a similar path that I was on, but he's, like, just using different tools. He's learning similar things, like, things are working, and… but, like, you know, it doesn't take him as long to write code, that kind of stuff.
Mike Hall: But then, like, the thing I worry about is, like, the people who… Go deep.
Mike Hall: Like, your performance engineers.
Mike Hall: you know, your systems level, like, I'm writing a driver, like, the monitor, or, you know, for a hypervisor, or I'm writing a hardcore device driver, and if we start trusting, like, some LLM to write that right now, I'm not sure we're gonna…
Joe Beda: My daughter, by the way, I helped her… I introduced her to the folks at Adaira, and she's gonna…
Joe Beda: intern there this summer, and we'll see how she does, but this is, like, you know, low-level Type 1 hypervisor virtualization for container stuff. I don't know if you've looked at what those.
Mike Hall: Yeah.
Joe Beda: Good.
Mike Hall: But then again, I might be surprised, because the stuff is getting better and better and better, and like, you know…
Mike Hall: I've actually been… I've had stuff that I thought the L… like, and the stuff moves so quickly, like…
Mike Hall: since December, it's like… Seems to be exponential, and how better the models are getting.
Mike Hall: So, I don't know.
Kostadis Roussos: Anyway… We are on.
Joe Beda: Alright.
Mike Hall: Nice.
Kostadis Roussos: We are on. We are on.
Kostadis Roussos: So, okay, well, I generated… anyway, not important. Okay, so, you've arrived, so just to remind you, you may have read the summary, if not, the key, important bullet point is, Dirt Adaz came up with a brilliant ploy of convincing Ashra… Asha Vandri that her,
Kostadis Roussos: that a spider of Loth… a spider produced a dazzling display of lights that convinced that looked like, what's her name? Loth was showcasing her blessing.
Mike Hall: Is now in my… is now in my familiar.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, it's now… well…
Kostadis Roussos: Right, so, Daz, I presume you could… this was well within range, so you are correctly located. If not, just place yourself appropriately, so I know where you were.
Mike Hall: Let me double check, but yeah, I should be… Zoom out.
Mike Hall: And Asha is the one that I was doing all this with.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, Asha is the… Jordan is the guy who's… who's… who's the ditched… who's the guy who's, you know, was… was… had an affair with Elvara, and was, like, her boyfriend, and… and then she decided that, you know, he was, you know.
Kostadis Roussos: was kind of.
Mike Hall: Yeah, I'm well… I'm well within range of everything that I need to be.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, okay.
Gabe: Sorry, the new map has moved the vents. Are we now where we're standing in range of that vent next to us?
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, so let me just, put the vendor ages. Let me just do that.
Kostadis Roussos: Sorry.
Kostadis Roussos: That was not intent. That was a mistake of the artist. Goddammit, I tell you these artists, I give them specific directions, and instead of them following them, they, like, completely make a hash out of things.
Ben Pfaff: Damned interns.
Kostadis Roussos: Exactly.
Kostadis Roussos: Just tell me, sorry.
Gabe: So the range of the vents has reduced.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, so because that the… because all the… well, the range is variable depending on where I've decided to place them.
Gabe: Okay, it's whatever Crisada says, alright.
Kostadis Roussos: I mean, isn't that the case for all GMs?
Gabe: Sure.
Mike Hall: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: I mean, at the end of the day, isn't this the world I created?
Gabe: Are we talking about the game, or just how you live? Either way.
Joe Beda: Whoa!
Kostadis Roussos: Well, dude, dude, people ask me, why are you a forever GM? I go, because it's taken me a while to admit this, but I have control issues.
Kostadis Roussos: It's taken me a long time to admit this, but I have serious control issues.
Kostadis Roussos: Right. No, that's too big.
Gabe: Aha, yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: No, I said, that's too big! Didn't I say that was too big?
Gabe: Agreed.
Kostadis Roussos: There we go. Okay, so that there's no misunderstandings.
Gabe: I'm good.
Kostadis Roussos: Let me just put those in the map.
Kostadis Roussos: Send two back.
Kostadis Roussos: No, translator, let me put them on the map.
Gabe: Also, it's probably an intern thing, but is there a reason there's, like, a second overlay grid or underlay grid.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, yeah, it's the intern.
Gabe: Okay, ignore that. Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes. Yes. Like, I was trying to fix that, but, like, can we just ignore it for the moment? If it gets.
Gabe: It's too distracting.
Kostadis Roussos: I will… Yes, well, so what happened was the image got generated, and the image had the grid put down, and I didn't fix it, and I'm just, like, very.
Joe Beda: I mean, could you feed the image to the intern and say, remove the grid?
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, but the thing is… oh, dude, there's another tool I use called.
Joe Beda: It's gonna thrash, it'll do something, it's like frickin' making a deal with a genie.
Kostadis Roussos: Technically, I did.
Joe Beda: what you said. Technically, I said I did what.
Kostadis Roussos: What is it… what is it that you want me to do exactly? I want you to do what you… I want you to do the right thing. Oh, well, I did the right thing, but, like, what is the right thing? Is there a right thing, really?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, alright. Okay, fine, we'll just leave it like this, and I will fix it later if I feel like it. Alright. Okay, so, okay, Asha is now staring at the spider. Okay, Des. I'm assuming you guys have found some way to hide, and so…
Kostadis Roussos: She's, like, looking at the spider. What does the spider do next?
Mike Hall: She's reaching for the spider, you said?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, she's staring at the spider, right? I mean, she hasn't done anything yet. I mean, she would.
Mike Hall: Right. And so, I think…
Mike Hall: I… can the spider go through those radiuses that you put everywhere?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, yeah, they just randomly pop up. You can… I'm assuming you have found when they pop up and can move them, without, running into any issues. How about that?
Mike Hall: Okay.
Joe Beda: Can we have the spider spin a web that says, some pig?
Mike Hall: I like that idea. Okay.
Joe Beda: I'm not sure it's useful, I just, like, it was too amusing, I had to say it, I'm sorry.
Mike Hall: Sidebar with the crew, what do we think… what do we think about, having the spider come back
Mike Hall: to us, bring attention to us, but also the spider seemingly, I can do the same bright light thing and have it, like, disappear into me, so that she thinks, like, I'm…
Mike Hall: The one, and then.
Joe Beda: You've been imbued with a spider, yeah.
Mike Hall: Yeah.
Joe Beda: Yeah.
Mike Hall: Sounds like a good idea.
Ben Pfaff: That's okay.
Joe Beda: Because then we don't have to try and keep up the illusion too long, it's like, the illusion sort of anoints you.
Ben Pfaff: How long can you keep the illusion up?
Mike Hall: I mean, I was just gonna cast another light thing and have the spider grow big as a light and absorb into me, and then I'm gonna make my familiar go away.
Mike Hall: So it's gonna look like the spider led her to me, and then I became the embodiment of Loth, or whatever.
Ben Pfaff: I… I don't know if it's gonna work, but I'd love to go to this show.
Mike Hall: Instead of the Blue Man group, it's more of, like, the Spider-Man group.
Gabe: That'll get.
Ben Pfaff: You sued, Mike.
Mike Hall: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I don't… yeah, they'll definitely come after me.
Mike Hall: I don't know, I'm trying to think of ways we can, like…
Ben Pfaff: No, I love it, but it's definitely a performance.
Ben Pfaff: And that's cool.
Gabe: It doesn't go against your religion or something? I don't know.
Mike Hall: No, I'm…
Ben Pfaff: I care about spiders, I care about dragons.
Gabe: You, yeah.
Mike Hall: I'm trying to remember what my background is. I think…
Kostadis Roussos: So, just as a… as a… canonically, drow male al… drow male… drow males who were… who were cla… who were magic users had a love-hate relationship with Loth.
Kostadis Roussos: Namely, they love to hate her and her priesthood.
Ben Pfaff: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: Barely… which barely tolerated them.
Ben Pfaff: I…
Mike Hall: So me… so me acting as if I was, like,
Mike Hall: weak as a… as a… as a wizard, but because I had access to magic, that Lolf in her weakened state is, like, possessing me in order to affect things in the material plane in the underworld.
Mike Hall: Could… be plausible?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, could be.
Mike Hall: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: I mean, if you want to roll a religion check just to see if you remember anything, I would be okay with that.
Ben Pfaff: I have this really vague recollection of some of this being in the Drizz novels.
Mike Hall: 18.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so.
Gabe: Right now.
Kostadis Roussos: So, you're, you're, you're,
Kostadis Roussos: you think, aha, I have a great idea, this is, in fact, a great idea, but you do realize that perhaps, instead of saying that you were the embodiment of Loth, you used your magic to somehow commune with Loth.
Mike Hall: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Just to…
Mike Hall: I mean, and that can just be an act.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, you don't have to, like, you recall that, like, the clerics of Loth
Kostadis Roussos: Tended to, there, fixed it, so now the grid maps. Alright, yes, the Clerics of Loth, always didn't trust magic users because of their abilities to talk to the gods without them being involved.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, they don't like being disinrediated.
Kostadis Roussos: Exactly. Do you know what the whole point of being a cleric of law fits? To be the one who controls the message?
Mike Hall: Yes.
Gabe: Right.
Mike Hall: Okay.
Ben Pfaff: They'd like the Catholics.
Mike Hall: So I'm like the, I'm like the, I'm like the press secretary.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, exactly.
Mike Hall: No.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, so, so, so you do, you do recall that, but if you started to say that you were lost, that would immediately cause her to become extremely.
Mike Hall: Okay, yeah, yeah, so let's not do that. So I'm gonna use dancing lights again. So this is what's gonna happen. I'm gonna have the spider come scurrying back, she's gonna watch the spider as it's coming back towards us.
Mike Hall: I'm gonna put my hand down, the spider's gonna come into my hand, and I'm gonna, at the same time, cast
Mike Hall: the cantrip dancing lights to make the loll form that I had shrink into the spider grow from the spider and come into my body, and then it's gonna blink out at the same time I also, cancel my familiar.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Usher, Vandri.
Kostadis Roussos: sees this.
Kostadis Roussos: She looks to the left, she looks to the right. Roll a perception… and sight check.
Mike Hall: Insight check?
Kostadis Roussos: All of you can roll the insight, Chuck.
Mike Hall: 18.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, you definitely get the impression that she's looking for someone or something.
Kostadis Roussos: What exactly you don't know.
Kostadis Roussos: And then she carefully walks down the hallway, she waits while the clouds poof up, poof, poof, poof. Then she… are you guys standing over there, or are you guys, like, are you literally standing there?
Kostadis Roussos: Or is it just…
Ben Pfaff: I don't have another place to be.
Mike Hall: Yeah, I mean.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, I mean, no, do you want to be, like, visibly next to him, or do you want to be hiding?
Ben Pfaff: Oh, I kinda feel like he should represent us, so…
Mike Hall: Yeah.
Ben Pfaff: Yo.
Mike Hall: I'm just standing in the middle, and they're kind of around me, like this.
Ben Pfaff: Oh. Okay.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, oh… I want to be inconspicuous. I guess maybe that's hiding.
Gabe: No.
Kostadis Roussos: So you can be hiding, like, over there. You can be, like, off the mushroom hiding on the ground, for example.
Ben Pfaff: It's not particularly bright here, right? It's not like.
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, no, I mean, if you're… look, she's, like, fixated on… on… what's his name, so as long as you're not trying too hard, and meanwhile, his, meanwhile, Globagool is really enjoying turning into, basically, invisible rock.
Mike Hall: Nice.
Kostadis Roussos: He's like, Then he starts talking and has to be reminded that, you know, Invisible Rock doesn't talk.
Kostadis Roussos: Then he opens his eyes, and… I mean, he's not getting this whole, you know, staying motionless and looking like rock. Eyes that will look left and right are not very invisible.
Mike Hall: So, I place a hand near my throat, like this.
Mike Hall: And I look a little like I'm possessed, And I say… I say, Asha.
Mike Hall: Dear servant.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, she looks at you and says, You're a wizard.
Kostadis Roussos: A wizard… a wizard who prays to Lolth?
Mike Hall: I am… you are not speaking to the wizard of this body.
Mike Hall: I… he… this body has communed with loaf.
Mike Hall: And I…
Kostadis Roussos: If you're on a vessel for Loth, roll your deception.
Mike Hall: I'm speaking through this body.
Kostadis Roussos: Roll your deception.
Mike Hall: Shit.
Mike Hall: 13.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, let me see what Basha's. Let me just go,
Kostadis Roussos: But, okay, roll, let's give you, since you've done such an amazing job of setting this up, why don't you roll with Advantage?
Mike Hall: Roll another deception, you mean?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, yes.
Gabe: What was the natural 20 for?
Mike Hall: Yeah, it was a response.
Kostadis Roussos: Her natural 20 is, like.
Kostadis Roussos: Wait, hold on, hold on. Her reaction is not what you would expect. She does not get pissed off, and she goes, Aha, you are trying to test me, to see if I was one of those fake followers of Loth, who are willing to believe every charlatan magic user that is somehow being possessed by the power of Loth.
Kostadis Roussos: You see, she's somewhat crazed at this point in time. Seeing paranoids… Paranoid shadows everywhere.
Mike Hall: There are many imitations, but as you saw, I came to you in my smaller form.
Mike Hall: and led you here. You should know.
Mike Hall: the truth.
Kostadis Roussos: She… okay, roll another deception.
Mike Hall: With Advantage or not?
Kostadis Roussos: This time flat.
Mike Hall: Just regular?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Mike Hall: Five?
Gabe: Can I just teleport behind her and stab her? Like, is this.
Mike Hall: Well, and I had the inspiration point from earlier, can I use that to do…
Ben Pfaff: Good idea!
Mike Hall: Yeah, yeah, okay, hold on. I can't roll three fives.
Ben Pfaff: Whoa.
Kostadis Roussos: Whew!
Gabe: Again, maybe it's time to give up on this?
Mike Hall: Yeah.
Ben Pfaff: Maybe that approach isn't gonna work.
Kostadis Roussos: Hold on, before it, before it, before it, you bail on it.
Kostadis Roussos: She… she… she looks at you and goes, oh, dear goodness, have you two been infected by the spores, possessed by the crazed magic of Zoop to me?
Kostadis Roussos: convinced of the bride's power? Is this another trick of Elvara's?
Mike Hall: One second, I gotta look something up.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: You're definitely… if you roll an insight check.
Kostadis Roussos: Or religion check, I might give you a hint, or you can keep playing it as you want.
Mike Hall: Roll an insight check, you said?
Ben Pfaff: I mean, I'm pretty good at the.
Mike Hall: I rolled a 20 for Insight, so I suck at deception, but I know what's going on.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, so what's going on is that you're trying to convince her you're a lot, and she's… that… that is landing like a fat lead balloon.
Kostadis Roussos: But… She is reasonably convinced that you think you're communing with Loth.
Kostadis Roussos: And that you could be a potential ally of hers.
Mike Hall: Alright, so I could either go down that route, or I could just double down, because I could cast Fairy Fire, dazzle her with a bunch of crazy stuff, and then, like, yell, you doubt me, or something, and, like, get in the…
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, before you do that, she has a drow, so she knows that Drow can cast Fairy Fire on demand.
Mike Hall: Hmm… and she'll recognize it.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Mike Hall: Okay, so, like, this is one of my own, I can't use my own tricks.
Mike Hall: Yeah, so we thought it was something else.
Mike Hall: Oh, I have an idea.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Mike Hall: Would you know about Misty Step?
Kostadis Roussos: Parler… magical parlor tricks? Yes. I mean, unless it's a very unique spell, she would probably have… she'd probably kill… killed a drow who tried to use Misty Step to… that escaped her.
Mike Hall: All right. All right, so I guess we'll go the route. My insight helps.
Kostadis Roussos: Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. I mean, if you wanted to dazzle her, like, the other thing that you know about drow is that they're, you know, they,
Kostadis Roussos: You know, having powerful allies that are subordinate to you and listen to you kind of elevates you, so just keep that in mind as you're…
Kostadis Roussos: Right. You know, a drow mage who's got, you know, hangers on that are under his beck and call and command would also provide leverage for her.
Mike Hall: Okay, so…
Mike Hall: she thinks that I'm delusional, but I might still be an ally. She'll see power in me leading some hangers-on, which could be my… the rest of the party. It could play… we could… we could play role… we could role-play that. And then,
Mike Hall: Yeah, and anything I try to do to, like, impress her, she's gonna know my tricks, and it's probably not gonna work.
Kostadis Roussos: Right, so just to… so again, you could try to pull the tricks off, but you'd have to roll a stealth check to make her… to see her distracted when you use them.
Mike Hall: I have to roll a what, Chuck?
Kostadis Roussos: Stealth. You'd have to do it stealthily, so she wouldn't… Slide of hands, so she wouldn't notice it.
Mike Hall: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? So, just to make things easier, if you just try to go with a straight-up, no, no, I'm Loth, I'm gonna say that's a DC20.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? That, that, like, you've blown enough of these, so if you go the, I'm the delusional magic user route, and double down on that, she's going to see you as somebody who she can use as an ally.
Kostadis Roussos: And we'll give that DC10.
Kostadis Roussos: And then, if you try to say, I'm not just any delusional magical ally, but I'm a delusional magical ally who's got power, and not just some lame-ass magic user who can cast a few spells.
Kostadis Roussos: you know, that drops it to a DC8 in terms of her perception of you as somebody useful.
Mike Hall: Alright, so let's do the… let's do option C.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Mike Hall: I'll basically tell her… I'll tell her…
Mike Hall: I really do believe that I have. Perhaps there are some spores within me, but I… it feels… I feel it. And by the way.
Mike Hall: I've convinced others to join me, and I ask them to come forward. I, like, wave and ask them to come forward.
Kostadis Roussos: Asha is pleasantly surprised. She goes, perhaps my prayers have been answered through this… He looks at you.
Kostadis Roussos: confused vessel.
Mike Hall: Okay, should I roll deception again, or it worked?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, roll deception. Unless you roll a 1, I will say it worked. There, it worked.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so, so Asha's, like, going, very well, we perhaps have the resources, very well, bring up your allies. So she, you all show up, right? I presume you're all now on this.
Mike Hall: Okay, okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Glabagul shows up, of course, and she's confused.
Kostadis Roussos: He's, of course, wants to ask all sorts of questions, but somebody probably should tell him to shut up.
Mike Hall: Yeah, yeah. Cabo, I'm taking care of this, it's fine.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay. Asha turns to you and says, Very well!
Kostadis Roussos: So clearly, you understand the importance of what's going on.
Mike Hall: I mean, I understand the importance of…
Kostadis Roussos: Feel free to say it.
Mike Hall: Why don't you tell me what you think.
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, Elvara!
Kostadis Roussos: Vara, who was once a high priestess of Loth.
Kostadis Roussos: has become seduced by this abomination, this idea that Lolth wishes to be a… wishes to get married. There is something foul and stinking about her, and then all of those allies she seems to covet have turned into fungal creatures that are mindless.
Mike Hall: We ran into a few in the cave.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, and so I am just saying… I… we need to kill her. We need to butcher her! We need to send her to an unearthly grave! I fear that her disease will spread.
Mike Hall: But if her disease is spreading across her allies, and you're opposed to her purpose, then isn't the disease.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, but it only affects… it doesn't affect her. As she contaminates more and more, they will become more and more infected by this disease.
Mike Hall: Her allies, or everyone?
Kostadis Roussos: Everyone!
Kostadis Roussos: That's a fun goal to do.
Mike Hall: fact, dude?
Kostadis Roussos: No, because I have very diligently kept all of the fungal dust off of me, I have avoided being within 20 feet of her, and I eat my own food.
Mike Hall: I self-definitely push it.
Ben Pfaff: my, clothing.
Mike Hall: Yeah, how do you propose to kill her if you're not gonna get within 20 feet of her?
Kostadis Roussos: I was going to kill her.
Kostadis Roussos: That is what you… where you come in.
Mike Hall: I see.
Kostadis Roussos: Like, I…
Mike Hall: Like, with…
Kostadis Roussos: It is commanded by the priests of Loth that you must defeat this imposter and religious aberration. This person was fled from the one true faith of the Demon Queen.
Kostadis Roussos: She's going all, you know.
Mike Hall: Alright, alright, alright. Well, what, what, what, if…
Mike Hall: For instance, I and the crew that is with me were able to take care of this small problem for you.
Mike Hall: What would be in it for us?
Kostadis Roussos: She looks at you. The gratitude of Lolth?
Kostadis Roussos: And the priests are like.
Mike Hall: I already feel the gratitude of Loluft.
Mike Hall: I have that.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, yeah, she puts her hands over her head and goes.
Kostadis Roussos: Elvara has various trinkets and treasures and magics, you can take them all even though they belong to our house.
Kostadis Roussos: They have probably been contaminated by her illness, but that's neither here nor there. I'm sure you can find a way to cleanse them of whatever disease they have.
Mike Hall: Do we have any, like, secret, like, way to tick our fingers or something to ask the… can I sidebar with the crew and figure out if this is acceptable to them? I'm… I know I'm playing the leader, but I want to actually see if they're cool with the…
Mike Hall: Just taking all the magic and stuff.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, you can, you can, shoot.
Mike Hall: What do you guys think?
Kostadis Roussos: I mean, you can sidebar it. I'm gonna… I'm gonna assume that you tell Asha that you need to tell your crew what needs to happen, and she needs to give you a moment.
Mike Hall: Yeah, there you go.
Joe Beda: All for one, one for all.
Mike Hall: Do we want to just kill her and keep moving, or do we want to go get this thing? Because it sounds like the infections from the other growl and stuff might be spreading. Maybe we go take care of this, loot whatever loot we need to do, and then we can always stab Hasha in the back later.
Ben Pfaff: Can… can we kill her without getting infected? We're gonna have to worry about that.
Gabe: What was the… we can't get within 20 feet? Was that it?
Kostadis Roussos: You don't know whether she knows what she's talking about.
Mike Hall: Yeah, she… it's just… there's… there's fungal dust, or whatever, so… like, worst case, we have to go somewhere and get some…
Mike Hall: Greater restoration before we get ill.
Gabe: Right, okay. And what about the big thing in the middle, the big heart fungus?
Kostadis Roussos: Let me just get that mechanically.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, is it going to come after us? I mean, I would guess so.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, but give me a second, I have to pull it up.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Is it?
Kostadis Roussos: So, yes, apparently it releases… it can release a… Spore Burst.
Kostadis Roussos: That causes, and it can release a spore burst, or…
Kostadis Roussos: It can use a tendril to hit people.
Gabe: Can we tell the range?
Kostadis Roussos: And she does point out that, what's her name?
Gabe: Oh.
Kostadis Roussos: That's pretty much.
Ben Pfaff: That's a pretty big range.
Kostadis Roussos: This is why Elvara has this place, and this is why Yorlan and her are where they are.
Gabe: So…
Ben Pfaff: So, one… one strategy that comes to mind is, I… I have a spell that I can…
Ben Pfaff: Cast it on a particular place, and then it gets triggered by… it can get triggered by something moving over it.
Ben Pfaff: But I don't know whether it'll, whether it's appropriate here, because it takes a full hour to do it, and I don't know if we have that kind of time.
Kostadis Roussos: Right, I mean, just… yeah, that sounds… yes, you do have that kind of time, just for the record. There's no… there's no… there's no impending rush right now. Elvara and her crew are sort of, like, doing drowey things.
Kostadis Roussos: Reading and sitting around…
Gabe: Like, hanging out?
Ben Pfaff: And I can even…
Kostadis Roussos: Just to give you an idea of what she looked like. So this is what she looked like.
Kostadis Roussos: And this is what she looks like.
Mike Hall: That's play.
Kostadis Roussos: Right, so she's clearly not, you know, she's clearly going a little bit crazy.
Ben Pfaff: She's gone a little dark.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, kind of… well, I mean, she was always dark to begin.
Gabe: Thank you.
Kostadis Roussos: She's now gone a little bit fungal. Fungal.
Ben Pfaff: But it's the… but it's the same cat of ninetails she had before.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, yep, you know, some things change, but some things do not.
Ben Pfaff: So I can even inscribe this trap so that only particular creatures, trigger it.
Kostadis Roussos: I mean, you can… let me just say, you have everything that could be completed within a few hours, but you don't… if you take a long rest, that thing… other things might happen. Does that make sense?
Ben Pfaff: Yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: There's no, like, imp-ressing thing that,
Kostadis Roussos: Would, would cause you to, to be forced to take any actions immediately.
Kostadis Roussos: Make sense?
Ben Pfaff: So, my glyph that I inscribe will do 5d8 damage, which is significant, but probably… but she's probably… won't be killed by it.
Mike Hall: It's a good way to start.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: I mean, one of the things that, as a… tell me when you're gonna go back to Asha. She's, like, currently…
Kostadis Roussos: sort of… she's feeling relief. She feels like she now has a plan on how to deal with,
Kostadis Roussos: Ovarov.
Mike Hall: Yeah, so,
Mike Hall: I think if, if… if we're… if we're gonna cast this spell and it takes an hour, maybe we'll just tell Asha…
Mike Hall: We need to, prepare, and the festivities
Mike Hall: We'll start in about an hour.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, Shia, so what is the plan? So, what is the plan?
Mike Hall: We're gonna take care of it, and take all of the magic items and the loot.
Mike Hall: Even though it belongs to your house?
Kostadis Roussos: She goes, excellent.
Kostadis Roussos: You will… you will deal with her in the appropriate way?
Mike Hall: Yes, of course.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, we were thinking about blowing her up.
Kostadis Roussos: That you, you will kill her,
Kostadis Roussos: You will kill her and, send her… destroy her… destroy her magical artifact and make sure that her disease does not spread outside of this cavern?
Mike Hall: There is some unknown unknowns related to the disease, but we will do our very best.
Kostadis Roussos: She pauses. That is not the kind of conviction a follower of Loth shows.
Mike Hall: It's the kind of conviction this follower of law shows.
Gabe: Sorry, Fearless Leader, what's the magical thing we have to destroy? What was that about?
Kostadis Roussos: She has a little mushroom that she's been carrying since she went to the Neverlight Grove, which is clearly how she's being controlled by Zuck to me.
Gabe: Oh, so we destroyed the mushroom and life is good now, or something?
Kostadis Roussos: No, I mean, she still has power, but she's, you know, you got rid of the thing that…
Mike Hall: If we fireball the mushroom, Well, also Fireball.
Kostadis Roussos: The point is, like, if you kill her and don't destroy the mushroom, then somebody else will pick up the mushroom and you're back to where you started. They are back to where they started. Does that make sense?
Mike Hall: Yeah.
Gabe: She's holding the mushroom.
Kostadis Roussos: Which is right next to her.
Gabe: Oh, oh, it's on the ground, by her.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: I should probably put a little mushroom there.
Ben Pfaff: Go steal it, Gabe.
Gabe: Well, I was gonna say, I can… she's very close, I can just teleport, grab her, or it, and come back, like…
Gabe: We have lots of options.
Ben Pfaff: How dangerous is it to us, though?
Gabe: Well, right, there… I don't know.
Gabe: Is it safe to be near?
Kostadis Roussos: You know, I mean, I wouldn't want to hold it and talk to it, and if I'd already made a deal, if I'd already had an encounter with a, you know.
Kostadis Roussos: With a certain demon princess.
Kostadis Roussos: That, you know, maybe I wouldn't want to be, like, trying my luck with her again, kind of thing, but no, in general, it shouldn't be an issue.
Kostadis Roussos: basically pointing out that if Thorin and Gregam grab it, I think they were the two that went to visit, what's her name, right?
Joe Beda: Yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, you two probably don't want to be near it, but everybody else's is fine.
Gabe: But just for the sake of argument, like, what's stopping us from just fireballing that poll?
Mike Hall: Mound.
Gabe: platform, yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, nothing's stopping you. I mean, it's… that's a perfectly legitimate sort of, like, opening attack.
Mike Hall: Well, I think getting Ben's thing, if they're not going to be aware of it, and Ben can do that… that one-hour concentration thing, that then starts them getting hurt, and then I'll throw the fireball in on top of that.
Ben Pfaff: So, I would have to inscribe it in a particular place, and then we'd have to somehow get her to go there.
Mike Hall: Oh, you can't cast it to the place she's at?
Ben Pfaff: It's a… the spell is Glyph of Warding. You inscribe it in a particular place, and then when somebody triggers it by moving across it, it…
Ben Pfaff: It does its thing.
Gabe: This was weird.
Ben Pfaff: I mean, I probably have some… some spells that I could use from here, but they're not… that special.
Gabe: approach him.
Ben Pfaff: Let me see, what's my… Guiding bolt works at 120 feet.
Mike Hall: I mean, we could just go old school and just start… I can start throwing fireballs, and we can see what happens.
Kostadis Roussos: That is totally a legitimate strategy.
Gabe: Cristadis, can Ben's glyph be… I forget the term, but will it hurt us if we're in range?
Ben Pfaff: No, it affects whatever triggers it, and I can set it to only trigger, that kind of creature or that particular one.
Gabe: Oh, so you're not talking explosive ruin, you're talking something else?
Ben Pfaff: No, this is Glyph of Warding.
Gabe: Right.
Ben Pfaff: Let's see… You inscribe it either on a surface, or with an ob… on an object.
Ben Pfaff: And… It can… oh, okay, it can either be an explosive rune or a spell.
Gabe: Yeah, I was assuming you meant explosive.
Ben Pfaff: I, I, I did, sorry, you, you, under… you knew this spell better than I did. But, but what, what was your subtlety about it?
Gabe: Well, it explodes, and everything in 20 feet takes damage.
Kostadis Roussos: Mike, just as a side note, one of the things you do know, because you are a drow, is that there's nothing quite like a double-cross when it comes to the drow.
Kostadis Roussos: So another thing you could do is.
Kostadis Roussos: take… say you agree with… is take Asha… have Asha pretend to introduce you, and then double-cross Asha to get more com… to get, what's-her-name, more comfortable with you, and then kill her as well.
Mike Hall: Okay, I like that plan.
Mike Hall: I'm saying.
Kostadis Roussos: If you wanted to move in closer, that's all I'm saying. If you wanted to move in closer for your other characters to attack, that would be a, you know.
Mike Hall: Dude, the… Do we need to be closer, guys?
Ben Pfaff: So…
Kostadis Roussos: I'm just…
Kostadis Roussos: That would be my only comment. Like, if you wanted to get closer, you can… the art of the double crosses is well appreciated in drow circles.
Ben Pfaff: So I also have another spell I haven't had a chance to use yet called the Dust of Suleiman, which I can cast at a 120-foot distance. It creates a 20-foot sphere, and anything inside this sphere takes 20 points of damage per turn.
Mike Hall: I don't know how many hit points she's gonna have. Do I know that?
Kostadis Roussos: No, but she's… look, a single fireball, you know, is not going to kill her, how about I put it that way?
Gabe: Ben, what's the range of that spell?
Ben Pfaff: 120 feet, and it lasts for up to 10 minutes with concentration.
Gabe: Costatus, these mysterious pools, how deep are they?
Mike Hall: I like it when Gabe starts asking very specific questions.
Kostadis Roussos: Sorry, I'm looking in the wrong location.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, I'll…
Kostadis Roussos: They're difficult terrain, so they're not deep.
Gabe: Not deep, hmm, okay.
Kostadis Roussos: So, 3 to 4 feet.
Gabe: I mean, it would be fairly straightforward to grab her and drop her into one of those pools, and then you could then have your spell in that area, so she'll take some damage. I don't know how long she'd be stuck there, but…
Ben Pfaff: I mean, I can… I can also move it, so I could cast down her now, and then move it later.
Gabe: Could move it. Interesting.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, how much… how fast can I work?
Kostadis Roussos: It counts as an action.
Kostadis Roussos: They changed a bunch of spells in the 5th edition updates.
Kostadis Roussos: to moving the spell. Like, a lot of… in the 5th edition rules, there were a bunch of these spells that you could only… you placed them and couldn't move them.
Ben Pfaff: No, I take it back. It talked about moving, but it's the creatures that move, so I can't… it doesn't say I can move it.
Gabe: Got it.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Ben Pfaff: with…
Gabe: Hmm.
Gabe: Well, yeah, I guess, so…
Gabe: I can only do melee damage, right? So I can easily take her to us, or I can go punch her, or we can try to do this range, and I'll just cheer you on.
Mike Hall: Well,
Ben Pfaff: Finally, I now have Phantasmal Killer.
Mike Hall: What's that? Sounds fantastic.
Ben Pfaff: 120-foot range. It says you tap into the nightmares of a creature you can see and create an illusory manifestation of its deepest fears.
Ben Pfaff: It… they become frightened if they fail a wisdom saving throw, and let's see… if they fail the saving throw in each turn, and it can last up to a minute, then they take 4 die 10 psychic damage.
Gabe: What was the save on that?
Ben Pfaff: Wisdom Save, it would be 15.
Gabe: I mean, I'm assuming she has decent wisdom, but… Good work.
Ben Pfaff: So these powerful spells I've been talking about, they're all 4th level, and I only have one fourth level, I can only cast one.
Kostadis Roussos: So, from what I'm hearing is your thought process is now, let's, go all in with, like.
Kostadis Roussos: What's the one I'm looking for?
Ben Pfaff: It's killer.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, let's kill her.
Kostadis Roussos: I mean, the other thing you could do is you could try to get Asha to join you in the fight, right? I mean…
Ben Pfaff: Well, that would be good, is… Does Asha have any ideas?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, I mean, when you're done talking to… talking amongst yourself, tell me, so that, like, I'm assuming… she's currently just sitting there, like, when you're ready to talk to her, tell me that go… Dave, go interact with her.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, rather, Mike, sorry.
Mike Hall: So, I think we can take them both.
Mike Hall: I think…
Mike Hall: Maybe, I, like, doing both at the same time probably is not smart.
Mike Hall: Cause there's no, like…
Kostadis Roussos: I mean, she hates Elvara, so she's not gonna get in the way of her getting killed, just keep that in mind, right?
Mike Hall: Yeah, so maybe… maybe we ask her to help with any… anything that she can do to help kill Avara. We kill Avara, and then we figure out…
Mike Hall: If we want to kill or, like, negotiate further concessions from Asha.
Kostadis Roussos: Right, I mean, like I said, she's very much committed to killing Elvara.
Ben Pfaff: Does… so I presented a few, spell options. Does she have any thoughts on any of them?
Kostadis Roussos: not tell me which they are again, sorry. The first was the…
Ben Pfaff: Well, there's, glyph of Warding, which would require…
Kostadis Roussos: Tim, how close do you have to be to cast it?
Ben Pfaff: It has a range of 120 feet, I think?
Ben Pfaff: Oh, no, no, sorry. To inscribe the glyph, you have to actually be there.
Ben Pfaff: So, we'd have to tempt her away from wherever she is into wherever I put it.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: Which is possible, but that's just one of the constraints you have to work with. So, she's like…
Kostadis Roussos: She… what's she… and what's the other option, just to remind me?
Ben Pfaff: Another option is Dust of Sullymen, where I can cast a big sphere of…
Ben Pfaff: A big sphere of dust that does 20 points of damage per turn.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, she says, well, that's an obvious one, use it on the big heart fungus.
Ben Pfaff: Oh. I was thinking about using it on Ilvara.
Kostadis Roussos: She goes, yes, and that is… she then looks at, she then looks at, Daz.
Kostadis Roussos: I thought you had strong allies, who had a tactical awareness and understanding how to use their magic for destructive purposes.
Mike Hall: We are not completely familiar with the spores and the mushrooms and all of that, and so it makes tactical sense for us to ask for people who have been around it more, and might understand any unwanted side effects
Mike Hall: Lest we go ahead and just blow everything up and cause us all to get infected and die.
Kostadis Roussos: She's very impressed with your reasoning.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, she, she's… she's, like, she's like…
Kostadis Roussos: She's very impressed with your reasoning, and says, well put, well put, this was just a test.
Kostadis Roussos: Don't touch me.
Mike Hall: warm.
Ben Pfaff: 7 points.
Kostadis Roussos: out.
Kostadis Roussos: She goes, well, a big heart fungus can be killed, but you need to be able to kill it. To kill it, you need to cast a spell that will keep causing damage to it.
Ben Pfaff: Hmm.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? The big heart fungus is part of the way Elvira keeps control over the whole area.
Mike Hall: So, can we kill the fungus first?
Mike Hall: Like, we killed more people.
Kostadis Roussos: If you attack the fungus, Vlvara will know, and she'll come out to attack, so that's just something to keep in mind.
Gabe: But can you explain for a moment the repercussions of destroying the heart fungus?
Kostadis Roussos: Elvara loses a major weapon she has us to attack us with?
Gabe: Well, yes, clearly, but you implied that there's implications beyond that.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, no, no, oh, oh, oh, you think that you'll get infected by some spores and turned into zugatomy demon spores and become mindless creatures that are under the whim of Elara?
Gabe: That was on the list, sure.
Kostadis Roussos: She goes, You worry about these things a lot.
Gabe: Yes.
Ben Pfaff: We do, yeah.
Gabe: I mean, I pointed Dad. Like, look at him! He's already infected. I don't want to be infected.
Kostadis Roussos: At this point in time, Glabagool can't go. I can assure you that they've been very… she, of course, is freaked out about the blinking eyes coming out of the ooze, so this would be a good time to come up with some cover story.
Mike Hall: What about Glenn?
Kostadis Roussos: Introduce him, or you can introduce him.
Joe Beda: It's like… Will Gleboggul be, offended if we refer to him as a familiar?
Kostadis Roussos: No.
Joe Beda: I think that's probably the easiest way to just explain it away.
Ben Pfaff: That was the idea that came to mind for me, too.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so, oh, she goes, a familiar, an ooze familiar. She's now even more impressed with Daz, who's been able to secure the services of an Ooze familiar.
Kostadis Roussos: Right, now, you know, she assumes, of course, it's… you're familiar, because you're drow and, you know, the…
Mike Hall: Right, right, and so that I would have the familiar.
Kostadis Roussos: clerics of Loth, you know, kind of assume have a pecking order of hierarchy, and, you know, below everybody else, just above everybody else's drow males. Very, very strongly opinionated group of people. All right, so, she is… she… what she… no, she goes, oh, no, no, no, no, the…
Kostadis Roussos: My dear boy, my, my dear… she goes, she looks at you contemptuously, and then says to Daz, tell the Dragonborn that the big heart fungus will not actually
Kostadis Roussos: cause any fungal disease, other than the usual poisoning and pain and suffering and breathing difficulties. The particular spore illness only originates from Ilvara's spores and from her mushroom.
Mike Hall: Okay.
Ben Pfaff: Well, that's good enough.
Mike Hall: So, I say we…
Kostadis Roussos: Causes.
Kostadis Roussos: She pauses.
Kostadis Roussos: I believe.
Mike Hall: Okay, awesome, thank you.
Mike Hall: Asha, are you ready to… are you ready to join us in the fight?
Kostadis Roussos: She goes, I will of course join you in the fight. I will wait, she says, on my…
Kostadis Roussos: On my thing, and as I see you enter combat, I shall rush in to help and to defend you from any other attackers who might show up.
Mike Hall: Okay, that's ominous, but that's good.
Kostadis Roussos: I mean, this is where somebody should ask which other attackers.
Mike Hall: Yeah, what other attackers are you talking about, Asha?
Kostadis Roussos: And she goes, well, there are those drow that have turned into nothing but spore servants of Elvara.
Mike Hall: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: The only three people who are no longer
Kostadis Roussos: Captured by her spores are myself and Jorlan. Me, because I have diligently kept the faith to Lolth, and have rejected all of these claims of the bride heresy, and Yorlan, because apparently he really hates Sylvara for something or other.
Mike Hall: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: It's very awkward, really, to be stuck with these two. I mean, they used to have an affair, it used to be this whole thing, and then she broke up with him, and then he was bitter because she broke up with him, and now I've had to be in the middle of these two for the last few months. Do you have any idea how aggravating that is?
Ben Pfaff: Oh, man, these relationships are so complicated.
Kostadis Roussos: I agree! Like, you would think that in the midst of the abyss with the demons on the breasts, everyone could get over their relationship issues, but no, no, no, no, no, Yorland still is complaining that Elvara… Elvara this and Elvara that.
Ben Pfaff: So, I could inscribe a glyph at a lower level to catch anybody who happened to rush in, at least on one side or the other.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Gabe: Does she know where these servants are? Like, I don't… we're looking around, we don't see any of them.
Kostadis Roussos: She goes, the problem with the servants is that they sometimes meld into the muck, into the dirt, into the pools.
Gabe: So they're beneath us?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, they're down below.
Gabe: Perchance, you could point them out?
Kostadis Roussos: She, she looks at you and goes.
Kostadis Roussos: What happens is, your tactical awareness, Zeltier.
Kostadis Roussos: is to be commended. She turns to Daz. You have chosen a great… you have found a great servant, Daz.
Gabe: It's a good boss, yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes. Boss? I thought he was your master. Very well. Boss it is!
Kostadis Roussos: It's a term they use among Dragonborn.
Gabe: Yeah, yeah, totally. That, yes.
Kostadis Roussos: So she looks at you and says, no, what happens is apparently she can summon them.
Mike Hall: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: So, it's not that they… they kind of, like, whenever she needs them, she can summon them, but she can summon only so many.
Ben Pfaff: What manner of creatures be they?
Kostadis Roussos: Good question. They are the drow of our party whom have totally succumbed to Elvara's power.
Kostadis Roussos: There were those who foolishly believed Ilvara's claims about how the bride was Loth's further manifestation, and who embraced the spores and the ecstasy that came through them.
Ben Pfaff: I don't know how to inscribe a glyph that will, only kill the draw that we don't like.
Kostadis Roussos: I mean, the other thing you could do is you could…
Kostadis Roussos: I mean, the other thing that pops into your head is that maybe you might want to put
Kostadis Roussos: A glyph on the entrance of this cave to avoid anybody coming in.
Mike Hall: That's an excellent idea. And then we could just fight with my fireballs and conventional, and then his fourth level thing would start crippling them as they came in, and maybe they would turn around and leave.
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, if there was… you have an exit over there, right? You are in the Underdark. You have no idea who else might be following you, that's my only point.
Mike Hall: Right.
Ben Pfaff: That's… that's a good thought.
Gabe: But, Ben, did you say you can only do one or the other? Because you're…
Ben Pfaff: So…
Gabe: I'm gonna take down the heart fungus, right?
Ben Pfaff: So I thought they were all 4th level, but I can inscribe a glyph at 3rd level.
Gabe: Oh. Wonderful.
Ben Pfaff: And I have a few third level spell slots.
Kostadis Roussos: Or the other… the other thing you could do is you could use the Glyph of Warding to protect… to block the bridges, for example.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? Those are probably…
Mike Hall: Pretty good.
Mike Hall: I do.
Kostadis Roussos: So you could… you can put a… you can put a glyph of boarding here, a glyph of boarding here, a glyph of… I mean, there's, like, lots of places where you can create defensive…
Kostadis Roussos: For the Magic users, right? Does that make sense?
Ben Pfaff: Y-yeah.
Ben Pfaff: What… I… I should… I probably should only do one to minimize
Ben Pfaff: To make sure I have plenty of spells left.
Ben Pfaff: What seems like the entrance that would be hardest to defend? Like, what's…
Ben Pfaff: What seems like a good spot?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, so you know there are bad guys in the cave. You don't know that there are bad guys out of the cave.
Ben Pfaff: Right…
Kostadis Roussos: Right, so protecting yourself on the cave from anybody approaching might be the smart strategy.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, let's… let's do that. Since Asha is at least temporarily an ally, I guess I'll put it on the…
Ben Pfaff: A bridge that's going the other way?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so over here.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, so, let's see. What explodes…
Ben Pfaff: It does in a 20-foot radius sphere, so put it to…
Ben Pfaff: Let's put it, you know, at least 20 feet… yeah, there we go.
Ben Pfaff: At the very least.
Kostadis Roussos: It's your line if he… it gets your line if he tries to run off to attack you.
Ben Pfaff: And Yorlin is not our, not our allies.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, no, well, remember what we said, you could pick one of the two allies.
Ben Pfaff: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: you picked Asha.
Ben Pfaff: Okay, and then, I guess the trigger is, anyone approaching from the… from the side that Jorlin is on.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, sounds good.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Gabe: So, in terms of attacking… what's-her-name? Elvara.
Gabe: then I'm assuming you're gonna cast your… sphere thing.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah.
Ben Pfaff: of Suleiman.
Gabe: That one, Dust of… Suleiman? That one. What I'm wondering is…
Gabe: I can try to grab Ilvara and drop her into that, such that you're hurting both of them, and then the rest of you can fireball or whatever from there.
Ben Pfaff: Sounds good.
Joe Beda: What do you all think the best thing for me to do is? Because I'm kind of a brawler, and it sounds like we're not really going to get close.
Mike Hall: I mean, there may be a point in time where after we've done a couple other range things and we're starting to run out of spell slots, it's time to send the brawlers in.
Mike Hall: But I suspect, perimeter defense, if these guys do show up and they get through the stuff that Ben's laying.
Joe Beda: Yeah, I mean, I can try and sort of, like, defend you from… from them, or…
Mike Hall: Yeah.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, if people are really rushing in, then…
Ben Pfaff: Then my glyph will only get us so far.
Joe Beda: Yeah, my darts will only… Are not great for range, so…
Joe Beda: This is… I gotta figure something out. I might…
Ben Pfaff: Are… are you good with other, ranged weapons? I can lend… I can lend you my light crossbow.
Joe Beda: I think I had one. Let me see, there's some reason why I was focusing on that versus the other one, I have to remember.
Kostadis Roussos: I think, yeah, what is the name of the spell, by the way?
Ben Pfaff: Which one? A Dust of Suleiman?
Kostadis Roussos: Glyph of War.
Ben Pfaff: Jordan?
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, the Dust of Solomon, can you just drop the name in the chat?
Ben Pfaff: Oh, yeah.
Ben Pfaff: Where'd it go?
Joe Beda: Alright, I can do a hand crossbow that, but my bonus is.
Ben Pfaff: that.
Joe Beda: shit.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, there it goes.
Ben Pfaff: I'm going to guess that a big heart fungus is some sort of supernatural creature.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: In this particular case, it happens to be so.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, have you guys sorted out what you plan to do?
Joe Beda: I'm gonna borrow your, like, crossbow, Ben.
Ben Pfaff: Alright, cool.
Joe Beda: Because it's better than nothing.
Ben Pfaff: Alright, it's yours.
Mike Hall: Alright.
Ben Pfaff: I'm surprised she only had darts.
Joe Beda: Well, I think it's because I don't… my, my… DEX is very low.
Joe Beda: And so, yeah, that makes things hard.
Ben Pfaff: I do have, a limited supply of poisoned crossbow bolts.
Joe Beda: No, I mean, let's… let's see how things go. I can at least throw some damage there, and we'll see how it works.
Ben Pfaff: Okay.
Gabe: Just, oh, I didn't realize you'd actually choose the type of creature affected, meaning it won't hurt us.
Ben Pfaff: Right.
Gabe: Oh. So, in theory, Joe, like, my plan is to drop her in the middle onto the big heart fungus, such that she's hurt as well. You could hop down there, it won't hurt you.
Mike Hall: Yeah.
Mike Hall: I… except then I couldn't fire a fireball.
Gabe: Well, yes, there's that.
Joe Beda: We don't know what the big heart fungus will do to me. I mean… Will it, like…
Joe Beda: Take me over and turn me into…
Kostadis Roussos: Asha, you remember that Ashra said that, no, no, it does not have that power.
Joe Beda: Okay, I thought… okay, that's not the big heart fungus, that's…
Kostadis Roussos: The little green thing at the very top of the screen.
Joe Beda: Yeah, okay.
Ben Pfaff: When I think of big heart, I don't think of fungus.
Joe Beda: Alright.
Joe Beda: Alright, I mean, like…
Joe Beda: as far as we know, me… can I just drop it down there? I'm trying to, like, imagine, like, will that… and just start whacking at the big heart fungus, will that actually…
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, that would work. That would work.
Joe Beda: Okay. It's not like I'm immediately gonna die or anything. Wait, how big is… because this thing is big, is it, like… do I, like…
Joe Beda: Where's the edge of it?
Joe Beda: Is it, like, here? Would this be?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, we're, we're… yes.
Joe Beda: Okay.
Ben Pfaff: Is there a… is there a platform there to… to jump onto, or is that just the ground, or…
Joe Beda: Yeah, how far… how do I get down there?
Kostadis Roussos: How do you get down where? .
Ben Pfaff: to the square.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, that's a… yeah, you can jump down.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, okay.
Kostadis Roussos: It's like a 20-foot drop, but if you just try to climb down safely, you can get down. It's not… it's just that if you get thrown off, it would take you… you could take damage.
Kostadis Roussos: Does that make sense?
Ben Pfaff: Yup.
Kostadis Roussos: It's more about being thrown down versus.
Joe Beda: Okay.
Joe Beda: And then how do I… I'm sorry, I'm just trying to…
Joe Beda: Alright, I think I'll just… I'll just wade into it and see how things go.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, okay, so let's roll… let's roll some initiative rolls so we can start doing this, alright.
Mike Hall: Why?
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, remove all turns.
Mike Hall: Let me click on my little dude.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Mike Hall: Initiative!
Mike Hall: Oh, that's great.
Mike Hall: Well, at least I'll get to see what things look like before I go.
Kostadis Roussos: What'd you roll?
Mike Hall: 4.
Mike Hall: Oops.
Joe Beda: How do you have… D&D Beyond.
Ben Pfaff: Oh.
Joe Beda: actually default to two-handed weapons versus one-handed.
Kostadis Roussos: I don't know…
Joe Beda: That was a mistake. Wait, no, that's… that was Gergen.
Joe Beda: Yeah, no worries.
Joe Beda: Oh no, that's against…
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so…
Joe Beda: None of these are undead, though, right?
Kostadis Roussos: None of these are undead, yes, that is correct.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: So, Ubara is 16.
Kostadis Roussos: 16.
Kostadis Roussos: Nope.
Kostadis Roussos: And then…
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, hold on.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: I did it not wrong.
Kostadis Roussos: Hold on.
Kostadis Roussos: Character sheets…
Kostadis Roussos: Initiative.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, and let me just add a couple more things.
Kostadis Roussos: what are they called? Big Heart.
Kostadis Roussos: customer, I don't Right.
Kostadis Roussos: This is on initiative.
Kostadis Roussos: for D.
Mike Hall: Wow.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: So… Tokens. Oh, gem.
Kostadis Roussos: One more thing, give me one more second…
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, alright, let me just say, blah blah blah, alright.
Kostadis Roussos: plus 2. There, DC plus 2, alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Dookie.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so, you've been… you've benefited…
Kostadis Roussos: From the fact that Ilvara is really in love with her little Zooptumi token there, so she's kind of been ignoring you since the beginning of this fight, this dialogue. Yorlin is throwing a hissy fit because he's still pissed off at Ilvara. Asha has moved over here.
Kostadis Roussos: Intending to cast whatever spell she can in support of your attacks.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, Zaltair Europe.
Gabe: Okay, I'm going to teleport over… to… right…
Kostadis Roussos: Wait, hold on, is… have you… is the black thing… is the darkness placed here or not?
Gabe: Yeah, I put it off just to the side, down out of the way a little bit.
Kostadis Roussos: So it's there, like, that's what I'm trying to say.
Gabe: Yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, so that… your first thing is you do that. Okay.
Gabe: No, my… I'm assuming we spent the last hour preparing things.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, but dropping a pile of darkness into the middle of this, there would be a highly visible event. That's what I'm.
Gabe: Well, fair enough. Let's say it was behind us somewhere.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, I just want to make sure that we know that if you put it there, she would have noticed it. If you put it back there, she would not have. That's what I'm trying to say.
Gabe: Okay, fair, so it's back.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Gabe: So, I teleport here.
Gabe: I move up to her, and I punch her.
Kostadis Roussos: Right?
Ben Pfaff: Well, that's straightforward.
Mike Hall: Thank you.
Ben Pfaff: Don't expect anything as simple as that.
Ben Pfaff: I hope you're better at punching than I am. The last time I did it, it did 0 points of damage.
Gabe: I guess we'll see. Should I roll, or is Cassanda's processing something?
Kostadis Roussos: Status is processing something, he should still roll.
Gabe: I should still roll. Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Gabe: 17, 10 damage… oh, actually, I didn't even need to move anymore, sorry, I forgot. And then I roll for my…
Gabe: Mall damage of… so, 16 damage, plus a grapple.
Kostadis Roussos: 16 damage plus a grapple.
Kostadis Roussos: Hold on… 16 damage plus a grapple, let me just make sure I have the right hit points in those plays. Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright. Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: So you did 16 points of damage?
Gabe: Yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Is that it?
Gabe: I was expecting you to say something terrifying, but sure, then…
Kostadis Roussos: No, I mean, you haven't finished your action, so I'm waiting for you to finish your action to tell you the terrifying.
Ben Pfaff: Then he'll do something for us.
Kostadis Roussos: I'm just…
Kostadis Roussos: I gotta be clear, I'm… I'm waiting for you to finish your action. Until that… that's… I'm waiting for you to do your thing.
Gabe: Fair enough.
Kostadis Roussos: you.
Gabe: In which case, okay, now I can puncture again.
Kostadis Roussos: Right?
Gabe: So I had advantage before because of the teleport, now I had advantage because I'm grappling, alright?
Kostadis Roussos: Nice.
Gabe: For 11, plus 4… for 15 more damage.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Gabe: And now, I'm going to fly…
Kostadis Roussos: wire teleport?
Gabe: flow.
Gabe: Fly with her grappled.
Kostadis Roussos: Over here?
Gabe: Yeah, into… the range of Ben's impending… dust.
Ben Pfaff: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: So… Okay, so she uses a legendary action.
Ben Pfaff: -Oh.
Kostadis Roussos: Insert legendary action, so…
Mike Hall: Budgetary actions don't seem like a good idea.
Ben Pfaff: Brock.
Kostadis Roussos: She uses her legendary action to essentially
Kostadis Roussos: Let's see, how does this one work?
Kostadis Roussos: She melts into a fungal patch, and then reappears over here.
Kostadis Roussos: She screams… she screams at the top of her lungs, furious.
Kostadis Roussos: at herself.
Kostadis Roussos: Your land wakes up, and it looks around and sees you sort of flapping your wings with your two claws over the big heart fungus.
Gabe: Okay.
Gabe: So she did that after I moved over here, meaning…
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Gabe: Okay. Well, I'm out of actions and bonus actions, so I guess I'll just kind of look on and be confused.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, so she does that.
Kostadis Roussos: And then, she tells the heart fungus to lash out at you.
Kostadis Roussos: She… and you're not sure whether she's controlling it, or the heart fungus is just doing its thing.
Ben Pfaff: I mean, that thing is all heart.
Kostadis Roussos: What? Yes.
Gabe: Thank you, brother.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, let me see where I wrote this up somewhere.
Kostadis Roussos: Make a DC-15 constitution save.
Gabe: Constitution? Why Constitution?
Kostadis Roussos: you've got…
Gabe: Good Lord.
Kostadis Roussos: You get a poisoned effect for one round, or while you're within the poison spore area.
Gabe: Okay, I'm not familiar with that one, so…
Kostadis Roussos: It's a, disadvantage on actions and rea… it's disadvantage.
Gabe: How do I get rid of that?
Kostadis Roussos: You can… unless the restoration, but if you just move out of… like, if you just move out of the sport area, which I will now, add a color… you… it's… it's not a persistent thing, it's just that while you're in the sport area, you are poisoned.
Kostadis Roussos: Does that make sense?
Kostadis Roussos: So… You just… sorry.
Kostadis Roussos: Wrong… what wrong one.
Kostadis Roussos: Purple.
Kostadis Roussos: Let's give it a purple thing.
Kostadis Roussos: It just… it's… as long as you are not in the sport area, you are not affected, and while you're in the sport area, you are.
Gabe: And it's…
Kostadis Roussos: Hold on, hold on. And anytime you go back into the sport area, you can try to roll a saving throw to see if you're affected. Does that make sense?
Gabe: It does, and…
Gabe: Was that… what is the order of operations here? Can I still use my movement, or is my turn?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah! no, you, you can't… since you finished your actions, right.
Kostadis Roussos: You can use your movement, yes, you can use your movement.
Gabe: It's okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Dude.
Gabe: This is a sphere.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, it's the area where the poisonous gas got pumped.
Gabe: Understood. So if I go up, will I get out of it?
Kostadis Roussos: Oh! If you fly up, yes, you can fly up out of it.
Gabe: Okay, how many feet do I have to go up?
Kostadis Roussos: Hmm… 10 feet.
Gabe: Oh, easy, okay, I go 10 feet up.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes. So you're poisoned until… your turn. Just keep that in mind. Alright.
Gabe: Cool.
Kostadis Roussos: Elvara, you know, is howls in frustration.
Kostadis Roussos: She screeches in anger and righteous fury.
Kostadis Roussos: And, what does she do?
Kostadis Roussos: She summons… Her, what does she do? She summons her… her spore… her spore walkers.
Mike Hall: Warwalkers.
Kostadis Roussos: Or sports, or draw sports, I remember I told you.
Mike Hall: Who knows?
Kostadis Roussos: Pez.
Kostadis Roussos: You see these reanimated drow-like creatures.
Kostadis Roussos: appear… Over here…
Kostadis Roussos: You recognize some of them as the drow that you saw as your prison guards, now reduced to, well, you know, reduced.
Kostadis Roussos: How'd they.
Gabe: Take it all the way over here!
Kostadis Roussos: There, she summons them from the ground.
Gabe: But, like, from the prison we started in ages ago?
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, no, no, she's… they've turned… they… they… sorry, what was your question, how did they end up here?
Gabe: Yeah, I was, like, halfway across the Underdark.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, they followed her to here, got converted into drowspores, and now she's controlling them.
Gabe: Those poor guards, they've been through quite a lot.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, I mean, you know, Valent, Valent, that was Valen's fate.
Joe Beda: Are they dead?
Kostadis Roussos: No, they're fungal creatures. They're also not very buff.
Joe Beda: I'm wondering if they're dead, but they're still moving, would they then be undead?
Kostadis Roussos: No, they're not undeath. They're fungal creatures. They're not particularly buff. They're intended to create a sense of horror and terror and, you know, one more annoying thing you have to deal with.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright. So they are summoned, and they start walking towards you. They look like zombies. Alright.
Ben Pfaff: Where are they? I'm trying to see…
Gabe: They're under the purple, they're… they're near you.
Kostadis Roussos: I'm gonna move, I'm gonna move the purple, I'm gonna get rid of the purple, because it's getting too confusing.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, I see them. They're sort of in the southwest… Part of the purple.
Gabe: Yeah, yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: I'm gonna move them to the jam layer so that I know where it is, and if you guys ever need it, I can tell you where it is. Alright?
Gabe: Are the numbers significant? There's some…
Kostadis Roussos: Just, what? Just their initiative… and just so you know, if you're telling me I'm attacking this one, you don't have to tell me this one, you can say I'm attacking number 1, 2, 3, or 4.
Gabe: Okay, but some of the numbers are just kind of floating in the ether.
Joe Beda: Oh, you might need to reload, or at least it shows up for me now.
Gabe: Oh, really? Okay.
Joe Beda: Yeah, it changed. Something happened.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, I couldn't… I'm playing with so many layers at this point in time that anything works, it's kind of…
Joe Beda: At one point, there was a big pink circle. What was the pink circle?
Kostadis Roussos: That was the range of the poisonous cloud.
Joe Beda: Now, is that still there?
Kostadis Roussos: It disappeared.
Kostadis Roussos: It disappears at once… at the end of the big heart fungus, it disappears, and then he can regenerate it if it wants.
Joe Beda: Okay, gotcha, gotcha. Okay, so that lets us know, sort of, the poisonous cloud that we may be subject to, but if I enter it to attack, then I won't be subject.
Kostadis Roussos: Now you'd have to roll a Constitution saving throw.
Gabe: I mean, it's there. If you go in that range, you'll miss…
Joe Beda: So it's still there. It's there until the beginning of the fungus's next turn?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, yes.
Joe Beda: Okay, so it's there for a whole round versus there just for its… okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes. Alright, Thorin. So, so Jorlan… Jorland.
Ben Pfaff: I try to attract him this way, you know, come get it, idiot.
Kostadis Roussos: Come get it, idiot.
Ben Pfaff: I played a crap just for Jorland, so…
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so he runs… he runs towards the trap.
Ben Pfaff: Cup.
Ben Pfaff: Kaboom! I didn't expect it to work.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, it actually kind of works. It also has the side effect of hitting some of the other guys around him.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah. So, that has a 20-foot radius. They need to do a dexterity saving throw.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Joe Beda: The majority better be low, because I think you described them as shambling.
Ben Pfaff: 15.
Joe Beda: Undead that aren't undead don't have high dexterity.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: Let me see…
Ben Pfaff: So they take either 21 or 10 damage.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: they don't have a lot of hit points, so… alright. They still, however, have just enough of their drow dexterity, so 1 makes it, 2 does not.
Kostadis Roussos: 3 makes it, and Jorland does not make it. So,
Gabe: Did you also do the heart fungus?
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, oh yeah, my heart fungus, sorry. Okay, so, let me just do this. So, one guy gets destroyed, this guy's down to 3 hit points, and this guy…
Ben Pfaff: Fungus have a dexterity?
Gabe: That's what I'm wondering.
Kostadis Roussos: 5. He gets, you know, minus 4 to… minus… minus 4 about that?
Kostadis Roussos: He blows his saving throw. Alright, the fungus takes 50 points of damage. Sorry, takes 20 points of damage, is that what you said?
Ben Pfaff: Either 21 or 10 if they… if they passed.
Kostadis Roussos: 21 points of damage.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Ben Pfaff: And…
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay. Oh, and he takes… he takes 21.
Kostadis Roussos: Wow, that…
Ben Pfaff: That worked better than I had any right to expect.
Gabe: God.
Kostadis Roussos: Jorland… The… okay, so it explodes in his face, and he's,
Kostadis Roussos: He's… he's looking very confused. Alright, Thorin, you're up.
Joe Beda: Alright, guys, should I attack one of the Shamblers, or Jorland, or go for the Big Heart Fungus? What do you think is most effective here?
Ben Pfaff: Gosh, I'm just not too worried about the shamblers. For one thing, can anything that moves that fast actually climb up here?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, they… they… although they look shambling, they still are drows, so they still have their innate drow dexterity. They… the shambling more reflects their…
Kostadis Roussos: I don't know how to describe it. Think of them as automatons, like zombies, that move like drow, but also move like zombies. So they're kind of, like, slow and lumbering, and then they can exhibit sudden grace as they're moving around.
Kostadis Roussos: So, the answer is… yes, they can move, but they're not particularly powerful or…
Ben Pfaff: I'm more worried about Jorlin. Alright. I'd go after him.
Gabe: Just, sorry, just before you do, Christatis, the cloud around Jorland, that gas cloud rubber thing, is that just poison, or does that do more?
Joe Beda: Wait, there's clouds around everybody, man.
Gabe: Yeah, those…
Kostadis Roussos: Keeping track of which…
Joe Beda: circuses, I mean, there's all these 10-foot, 15-foot radii, I'm like, I don't even know what's going on.
Ben Pfaff: It's just a periodic thing, right? Not continuous?
Gabe: Thorland stopped there, and then Thurin is thinking of running there.
Ben Pfaff: Good point.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes. They occur… I roll a 1, they occur on a 5 or a 6.
Kostadis Roussos: So I roll a 5D6.
Kostadis Roussos: If I roll a 5 or a 6 on a D6, they occur, and they cause blindness.
Kostadis Roussos: For one round while you're…
Gabe: Thorin has Blind Fighter.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, so, you know…
Gabe: Well, I haven't…
Joe Beda: blind sight. Does blind sight mean that I'm not affected by blindness?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Joe Beda: Okay.
Joe Beda: Within 10 feet. Okay, so if I get… if I get blinded, I'm fine.
Joe Beda: Or, like, stuff that I can, like, within close…
Kostadis Roussos: Yes. Okay. Yes.
Joe Beda: Well, then we are going to go through and we're going to try and take Jorlin out.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Joe Beda: Which puts me… I'm gonna put myself here.
Joe Beda: And then, I am… Let's see, I'm, I'm, I'm…
Joe Beda: I'm going Sand Shield right now, so I'm gonna go ahead and attack with two hands with Dawnbringer.
Mike Hall: Wow.
Joe Beda: That's a 20, I assume that's a hit.
Joe Beda: And that does.
Kostadis Roussos: 14 points of damage.
Joe Beda: Points.
Joe Beda: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: 14? Is that…
Joe Beda: Yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Joe Beda: And then I get another attack.
Joe Beda: Oh, now, okay, so… oh, also, Jorlin, that has SAP, so Jorlin has a disadvantage on their next attack, I believe.
Joe Beda: Is that how SAP works? Yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: Hmm.
Joe Beda: Alright.
Mike Hall: 1.
Joe Beda: Oh, I did the wrong thing. Okay, shoot.
Joe Beda: So that is a hit… no, no, that's a… 11?
Joe Beda: Is that a hit or no?
Kostadis Roussos: That is a miss, is that correct?
Joe Beda: Wait, wait.
Kostadis Roussos: I was 18.
Joe Beda: But we are going to… Give me a second here.
Joe Beda: Alright, so I can do, precision attack… Which lets me add… .
Kostadis Roussos: Tube, that's not enough.
Joe Beda: That's not enough.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh man, you had a plus 11, you had to roll a 7 or above.
Kostadis Roussos: You rolled a 2. Alright, okay.
Joe Beda: I'm still figuring out what else I can do here. Let me make sure I have to record that superiority die.
Joe Beda: hmm… Give me a second.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, I should… I didn't forgot to add Ashes or initiative on.
Joe Beda: Alright.
Joe Beda: I'm gonna let that go, we're gonna… we're gonna stay there. But remember that neither of these guys can really disengage, so they pretty much are…
Joe Beda: Gotta stay near me.
Kostadis Roussos: Elvaro uses her legendary action to tell this guy to attack you.
Joe Beda: To tell which guy, though.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, the spore guy who's right next to her.
Joe Beda: Okay, yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: He climbs up, And he attacks you, with a short sword.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so they… they attack you, and it's D20 plus 4.
Mike Hall: forms.
Kostadis Roussos: They rattle the natural one, and then they attack with their normal attack.
Kostadis Roussos: And that is… which armor class?
Joe Beda: Well, because I was going sand shield, it was 17, otherwise I would have done it, but, you know, okay, so I take a hit.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, that's 5 points of damage, and I think that is the end of that spore.
Kostadis Roussos: That puts… that, that puts the end of that guy. Gets one attack, yes. Alright, and then the other guy sort of climbs over here.
Kostadis Roussos: And… Kind of moves over here, and this guy climbs over here.
Kostadis Roussos: And ends up on the top of his… so they dash over here. That's what they would do. They sort of dash over here, but they can't perform any other actions. Grigam, you're up.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, I am…
Ben Pfaff: A little nervous about these shamblers, but I think I'm gonna stick to the plan. I'm going to cast, Dust of Suleiman, centered on the big heart fungus.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Ben Pfaff: So that should, I believe, immediately do… Let's see here…
Ben Pfaff: Yes, that does 24 damage to the fungus.
Kostadis Roussos: 24… 24th point, you said?
Ben Pfaff: Yeah. 20 points of damage of the force type.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay. It doesn't.
Ben Pfaff: It doesn't say anything about a saving throw or a roll or anything.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so, 20 points of damage, right? Daz, you're up.
Mike Hall: Alright.
Mike Hall: If I cast Fireball into the fungus thing, can I use the shaking to killing X out here?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, yes, absolutely.
Mike Hall: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: Just for the record, the, the, the…
Kostadis Roussos: The shaping thing allows you to pick up to 3 targets that are unaffected.
Mike Hall: Okay, so I'm gonna try to kill the mushroom and… Her.
Mike Hall: Avira. Whatever.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so that is a 20-foot radius fireball.
Ben Pfaff: How do I get rid of these things? That wasn't what I meant to do.
Kostadis Roussos: I don't think… You can't reach both of them, I think.
Mike Hall: Where's the fungus?
Kostadis Roussos: Fungus is the big… is where Zeltier is, it's right underneath Zeltier.
Mike Hall: Oh, and Elvira's up there. I thought it was… hold on, I thought Fireball was.
Gabe: this ring, right here, like, what I'm doing.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, oh, sorry, yeah, I'm sorry, I don't even know why I was thinking that. Yes.
Mike Hall: Yeah, it's 20 foot radius.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, I'm just trying to think, is that halfway?
Gabe: Just move it up a little.
Mike Hall: Yeah, move… can I move it? Yeah, there we go.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I kind of have this rule where it's kind of be half the creature, and this is kind of like a tenth of the creature, so…
Kostadis Roussos: Like, here you could do it, here you could do it, but, like, here it's kind of like, oh, there's a pixel.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Mike Hall: Well, what's this other thing up here next to Elvira?
Gabe: Well, that's the mushroom of doom. We want to destroy that.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, so destroying that is a good thing.
Mike Hall: So, I'll just hit here.
Kostadis Roussos: We're gonna hit there?
Mike Hall: Yeah, and I'm gonna hit it with a fourth level.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Mike Hall: Wow. So… that's… 24 points of damage.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, and what's the… what's the saving throw for that?
Mike Hall: There is a saving throw. They needed the dexterity.
Kostadis Roussos: And her dexterity is pretty high, so let me just check it up.
Mike Hall: It's, 15.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, let me just see… blah blah blah, dexterity plus 3, I rolled a 19.
Mike Hall: Okay, so you take half that, so 20, or 4… 12 points of damage.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, 12 points of damage, and the zoogotomy icon takes 12, and we are at the end of our session. Hopefully you are enjoying this complicated combat.
Mike Hall: Oh, yeah.
Joe Beda: Yeah, this is fun.
Gabe: Good.
Mike Hall: We're gonna knock some stuff out.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, take care guys, have a good evening.
Mike Hall: Alright, thanks for status. We'll see you guys.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, bye.